FRIDAY  JUNE 15th. 1787 [1]

[2] Mr. PATTERSON, laid before the Convention the plan which he said
several of the deputations wished to be substituted in place of that
proposed by Mr. Randolph. After some little discussion of the most
proper mode of giving it a fair deliberation it was agreed that it
should be referred to a Committee of the whole, and that in order to
place the two plans in due comparison, the other should be recommitted.
At the earnest desire [3] of Mr. Lansing & some other gentlemen, it was
also agreed that the Convention should not go into Committee of the
whole on the subject till tomorrow, by which delay the friends of the
plan proposed by Mr. Patterson wd. be better prepared to explain &
support it, and all would have an opportuy. of taking copies. [*4]

The propositions from N. Jersey moved by Mr. Patterson were in the words
following.

1. Resd. that the articles of Confederation ought to be so revised,
corrected & enlarged, as to render the federal Constitution adequate to
the exigencies of Government, & the preservation of the Union.

2. Resd. that in addition to the powers vested in the U. States in
Congress, by the present existing articles of Confederation, they be
authorized to pass acts for raising a revenue, by levying a duty or
duties on all goods or merchandizes of foreign growth or manufacture,
imported into any part of the U. States, by Stamps on paper, vellum or
parchment, and by a postage on all letters or packages passing through
the general post-office, to be applied to such federal purposes as they
shall deem proper & expedient; to make rules & regulations for the
collection thereof; and the same from time to time, to alter & amend in
such manner as they shall think proper: to pass Acts for the regulation
of trade & commerce as well with foreign nations as with each other:
provided that all punishments, fines, forfeitures & penalties to be
incurred for contravening such acts rules and regulations shall be
adjudged by the Common law Judiciaries of the State in which any offence
contrary to the true intent & meaning of such Acts rules & regulations
shall have been committed or perpetrated, with liberty of commencing in
the first instance all suits & prosecutions for that purpose in the
superior common law Judiciary in such State, subject nevertheless, for
the correction of all errors, both in law & fact in rendering Judgment,
to an appeal to the Judiciary of the U. States.

3. Resd. that whenever requisitions shall be necessary, instead of the
rule for making requisitions mentioned in the articles of Confederation,
the United States in Congs. be authorized to make such requisitions in
proportion to the whole number of white & other free citizens &
inhabitants of every age sex and condition including those bound to
servitude for a term of years & three fifths of all other persons not
comprehended in the foregoing description, except Indians not paying
taxes; that if such requisitions be not complied with, in the time
specified therein, to direct the collection thereof in the non complying
States & for that purpose to devise and pass acts directing &
authorizing the same; provided that none of the powers hereby vested in
the U. States in Congs. shall be exercised without the consent of at
least _____ States, and in that proportion if the number of Confederated
States should hereafter be increased or diminished.

4. Resd. that the U. States in Congs. be authorized to elect a federal
Executive to consist of _____ persons, to continue in office for the
term of _____ years, to receive punctually at stated times a fixed
compensation for their services, in which no increase or diminution
shall be made so as to affect the persons composing the Executive at the
time of such increase or diminution, to be paid out of the federal
treasury; to be incapable of holding any other office or appointment
during their time of service and for _____ years thereafter; to be
ineligible a second time, & removeable by Congs. on application by a
majority of the Executives of the several States; that the Executives
[8] besides their general authority to execute the federal acts ought to
appoint all federal officers not otherwise provided for, & to direct all
military operations; provided that none of the persons composing the
federal Executive shall on any occasion take command of any troops, so
as personally to conduct any [9] enterprise as General or in other
capacity.

5. Resd. that a federal Judiciary be established to consist of a supreme
Tribunal the Judges of which to be appointed by the Executive, & to hold
their offices during good behaviour, to receive punctually at stated
times a fixed compensation for their services in which no increase or
diminution shall be made, so as to affect the persons actually in office
at the time of such increase or diminution; that the Judiciary so
established shall have authority to hear & determine in the first
instance on all impeachments of federal officers, & by way of appeal in
the dernier resort in all cases touching the rights of Ambassadors, in
all cases of captures from an enemy, in all cases of piracies & felonies
on the high Seas, in all cases in which foreigners may be interested, in
the construction of any treaty or treaties, or which may arise on any of
the Acts for [10] regulation of trade, or the collection of the federal
Revenue: that none of the Judiciary shall during the time they remain in
office be capable of receiving or holding any other office or
appointment during their time [11] of service, or for _____ thereafter.

6. Resd. that all Acts of the U. States in Congs. made by virtue & in
pursuance of the powers hereby & by the articles of Confederation vested
in them, and all Treaties made & ratified under the authority of the U.
States shall be the supreme law of the respective States so far forth as
those Acts or Treaties shall relate to the said States or their
Citizens, and that the Judiciary of the several States shall be bound
thereby in their decisions, any thing in the respective laws of the
Individual States to the contrary notwithstanding; and that if any
State, or any body of men in any State shall oppose or prevent yd.
carrying into execution such acts or treaties, the federal Executive
shall be authorized to call forth ye. power of the Confederated States,
or so much thereof as may be necessary to enforce and compel an
obedience to such Acts, or an observance of such Treaties.

7. Resd. that provision be made for the admission of new States into the
Union.

8. Resd. the rule for naturalization ought to be the same in every
State.

9. Resd. [12] that a Citizen of one State committing an offense in
another State of the Union, shall be deemed guilty of the same offense
as if it had been committed by a Citizen of the State in which the
offense was committed. [*13]

Adjourned.

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. The words "In Convention" are here inserted in the transcript.

3. The word "request" is substituted in the transcript for "desire."

*4. [this plan had been concerted among the deputations or members
thereof, from Cont. N.Y.N. J Del. and perhaps Mr. Martin from Maryd who
made with them a common cause [5] on different principles Cont. & N.Y.
were agst. a departure from the principle of the Confederation, wishing
rather to add a few new powers to Congs. than to substitute a National
Govt. The States of N.J. & Del. were opposed to a National Govt. because
its patrons considered a proportional representation of the States as
the basis of it. The eagourness displayed by the members opposed to a
Natl. Govt. from these different motives began now to produce serious
anxiety for the result of the Convention. Mr. Dickenson said to Mr.
Madison -- You see the consequence of pushing things too far. Some of
the members from the small States wish for two branches in the General
Legislature, and are friends to a good National Government; But we would
sooner submit to a foreign power than submit to be deprived of an
equality of suffrage, [6] in both branches of the legislature, and
thereby be thrown under the domination of the large States]

The note in brackets for the margin. [7]

5. The word "though" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. The phrase "of an equality of suffrage" is transposed so that the
transcript reads "deprived, in both branches of the legislature of an
equality of suffrage, and thereby".

7. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript.

8. The transcript uses the word "Executives" in the singular.

9. The word "military" is here inserted in the transcript.

10. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

11. The word "term" is substituted in the transcript for "time."

12. The word "that" is here inserted in the transcript.

*13. This copy of Mr. Patterson's propositions varies in a few clauses
from that in the printed Journal furnished from the papers of Mr.
Brearley a Colleague of Mr. Patterson. A confidence is felt,
notwithstanding, in its accuracy. That the copy in the Journal is not
entirely correct is shewn by the ensuing speech of Mr. Wilson [June 16]
in which he refers to the mode of removing the Executive by impeachment
& conviction as a feature in the Virga plan forming one of its contrasts
to that of Mr. Patterson, which proposed a removal on the application of
a majority of the Executives of the States. In the copy printed in the
Journal, the two modes are combined in the same clause; whether through
inadvertence, or as a contemplated amendment does not appear.


