TUESDAY  MAY 29 [1]

John Dickenson, and Elbridge Gerry, the former from Delaware, the latter
from Massts. took their seats. The following rules were added, on the
report of Mr. Wythe from the Committee [see the Journal] -- [2]

Additional rules. [see preceding page] [2] That no member be absent from
the House, so as to interrupt the representation of the State, without
leave.

That Committees do not sit whilst the House shall be or ought to be,
sitting.

That no copy be taken of any entry on the journal during the sitting of
the House without leave of the House.

That members only be permitted to inspect the journal.

That nothing spoken in the House be printed, or otherwise published or
communicated without leave.

That a motion to reconsider a matter which had [3] been determined by a
majority, may be made, with leave unanimously given, on the same day on
which the vote passed; but otherwise not without one day's previous
notice: in which last case, if the House agree to the reconsideration,
some future day shall be assigned for the [4] purpose.

Mr. C. PINKNEY moved that a Committee be appointed to superintend the
Minutes.

Mr. Govr. MORRIS objected to it. The entry of the proceedings of the
Convention belonged to the Secretary as their impartial officer. A
committee might have an interest & bias in moulding the entry according
to their opinions and wishes.

The motion was negatived, 5 noes, 4 ays.

Mr. RANDOLPH then opened the main business. [Here insert his speech [5]
including his resolutions.] [6] (Mr. R. Speech A. to be inserted Tuesday
May 29) [6] He expressed his regret, that it should fall to him, rather
than those, who were of longer standing in life and political
experience, to open the great subject of their mission. But, as the
convention had originated from Virginia, and his colleagues supposed
that some proposition was expected from them, they had imposed this task
on him. He then commented on the difficulty of the crisis, and the
necessity of preventing the fulfilment of the prophecies of the American
downfal. He observed that in revising the foederal system we ought to
inquire 1. [7] into the properties, which such a government ought to
possess, 2. [7] the defects of the confederation, 3. [7] the danger of
our situation & 4. [7] the remedy.

1. The Character of such a government ought to secure 1. [7] against
foreign invasion: 2. [7] against dissentions between members of the
Union, or seditions in particular states: 3. [7] to procure to the
several States, various blessings, of which an isolated situation was
incapable: 4. [7, 8] to be able to defend itself against incroachment: &
5. [7] to be paramount to the state constitutions.

2. In speaking of the defects of the confederation he professed a high
respect for its authors, and considered them, as having done all that
patriots could do, in the then infancy of the science, of constitutions,
& of confederacies, -- when the inefficiency of requisitions was unknown
-- no commercial discord had arisen among any states -- no rebellion had
appeared as in Massts. -- foreign debts had not become urgent -- the
havoc of paper money had not been foreseen -- treaties had not been
violated -- and perhaps nothing better could be obtained from the
jealousy of the states with regard to their sovereignty.

He then proceeded to enumerate the defects:

    1. [9] that the confederation produced no security against foreign
invasion; congress not being permitted to prevent a war nor to support
it by their own authority -- Of this he cited many examples; most of
which tended to shew, that they could not cause infractions of treaties
or of the law of nations, to be punished: that particular states might
by their conduct provoke war without controul; and that neither militia
nor draughts being fit for defence on such occasions, inlistments only
could be successful, and these could not be executed without money.

    2. [9] that the foederal government could not check the quarrels
between states, nor a rebellion in any, not having constitutional power
nor means to interpose according to the exigency:

    3. [9] that there were many advantages, which the U. S. might
acquire, which were not attainable under the confederation -- such as a
productive impost -- counteraction of the commercial regulations of
other nations -- pushing of commerce ad libitum -- &c &c.

    4. [9] that the foederal government could not defend itself against
the [10] incroachments from the states.

    5. [9] that it was not even paramount to the state constitutions,
ratified, as it was in may of the states.

3. He next reviewed the danger of our situation, [11] appealed to the
sense of the best friends of the U. S. -- the prospect of anarchy from
the laxity of government every where; and to other considerations.

4. He the proceeded to the remedy; the basis of which he said must be
the republican principle.

He proposed as conformable to his ideas the following resolutions, which
he explained one by one [Here insert ye Resolutions annexed.] [12]

Resolutions proposed by Mr. Randolph in Convention May 29, 1787 [12]

1. Resolved that the Articles of Confederation ought to be so corrected
& enlarged as to accomplish the objects proposed by their institution;
namely, "common defence, security of liberty and general welfare."

2. Resd. therefore that the rights of suffrage in the National
Legislature ought to be proportioned to the Quotas of contribution, or
to the number of free inhabitants, as the one or the other rule may seem
best in different cases.

3. Resd. that the National Legislature ought to consist of two branches. 

4. Resd. that the members of the first branch of the National
Legislature ought to be elected by the people of the several States
every _____ for the term of _____; to be of the age of _____ years at
least, to receive liberal stipends by with they may be compensated for
the devotion of their time to [13] public service; to be ineligible to
any office established by a particular State, or under the authority of
the United States, except those peculiarly belonging to the functions of
the first branch, during the term of service, and for the space of _____
after its expiration; to be incapable of reelection for the space of
_____ after the expiration of their term of service, and to be subject
to recall.

5. Resold. that the members of the second branch of the National
Legislature ought to be elected by those of the first, out of a proper
number of persons nominated by the individual Legislatures, to be of the
age of _____ years at least; to hold their offices for a term sufficient
to ensure their independency; [14] to receive liberal stipends, by which
they may be compensated for the devotion of their time to [15] public
service; and to be ineligible to any office established by a particular
State, or under the authority of the United States, except those
peculiarly belonging to the functions of the second branch, during the
term of service, and for the space of _____ after the expiration
thereof.

6. Resolved that each branch ought to possess the right of originating
Acts; that the National Legislature ought to be impowered to enjoy the
Legislative Rights vested in Congress by the Confederation & moreover to
legislate in all cases to which the separate States are incompetent, or
in which the harmony of the United States may be interrupted by the
exercise of individual Legislation; to negative all laws passed by the
several States, contravening in the opinion of the National Legislature
the articles of Union; [16] and to call forth the force of the Union
agst. any member of the Union failing to fulfill its duty under the
articles thereof.

7. Resd. that a National Executive be instituted; to be chosen by the
National Legislature for the term of _____ years, [17] to receive
punctually at stated times, a fixed compensation for the services
rendered, in which no increase or [18] diminution shall be made so as to
affect the Magistracy, existing at the time of increase or diminution,
and to be ineligible a second time; and that besides a general authority
to execute the National laws, it ought to enjoy the Executive rights
vested in Congress by the Confederation.

8. Resd. that the Executive and a convenient number of the National
Judiciary, ought to compose a Council of revision with authority to
examine every act of the National Legislature before it shall operate, &
every act of a particular Legislature before a Negative thereon shall be
final; and that the dissent of the said Council shall amount to a
rejection, unless the Act of the National Legislature be again passed,
or that of a particular Legislature be again negatived by _____ of the
members of each branch.

9. Resd. that a National Judiciary be established to consist of one or
more supreme tribunals, and of inferior tribunals to be chosen by the
National Legislature, to hold their offices during good behaviour; and
to receive punctually at stated times fixed compensation for their
services, in which no increase or diminution shall be made so as to
affect the persons actually in office at the time of such increase or
diminution. that the jurisdiction of the inferior tribunals shall be to
hear & determine in the first instance, and of the supreme tribunal to
hear and determine in the dernier resort, all piracies & felonies on the
high seas, captures from an enemy; cases in which foreigners or citizens
of other States applying to such jurisdictions may be interested, or
which respect the collection of the National revenue; impeachments of
any National officers, and questions which may involve the national
peace and harmony.

10. Resolvd. that provision ought to be made for the admission of States
lawfully arising within the limits of the United States, whether from a
voluntary junction of Government & Territory or otherwise, with the
consent of a number of voices in the National legislature less than the
whole.

11. Resd. that a Republican Government & the territory of each State,
except in the instance of a voluntary junction of Government &
territory, ought to be guarantied by the United States to each State

12. Resd. that provision ought to be made for the continuance of
Congress and their authorities and privileges, until a given day after
the reform of the articles of Union shall be adopted, and for the
completion of all their engagements.

13. Resd. that provision ought to be made for the amendment of the
Articles of Union whensoever it shall seem necessary, and that the
assent of the National Legislature ought not to be required thereto.

14. Resd. that the Legislative Executive & Judiciary powers within the
several States ought to be bound by oath to support the articles of
Union

15. Resd. that the amendments which shall be offered to the
Confederation, by the Convention ought at a proper time, or times, after
the approbation of Congress to be submitted to an assembly or assemblies
of Representatives, recommended by the several Legislatures to be
expressly chosen by the people, to consider & decide thereon. [19]

He concluded with an exhortation, not to suffer the present opportunity
of establishing general peace, harmony, happiness and liberty in the U.
S. to pass away unimproved. [*20]

It was then Resolved -- That the House will tomorrow resolve itself into
a Committee of the Whole House to consider of the state of the American
Union. -- and that the propositions moved by Mr. Randolph be referred to
the said Committee.

Mr. CHARLES PINKNEY laid before the house the draught of a federal
Government which he had prepared, to be agreed upon between the free and
independent States of America. [22] -- Mr. P. plan [23] ordered that the
same be referred to the Committee of the Whole appointed to consider the
state of the American Union.

adjourned.

___________

1. The words "In convention" are here inserted in the transcript.

2. Madison's directions "[see the Journal]" and "[see preceding page]"
are omitted in the transcript as are also the words "Additional rules."

3. The word "has" is substituted in the transcript for "had."

4. The word "that" is substituted in the transcript for "the."

5. The speech is in Randolph's handwriting.

6. Madison's direction is omitted in the transcript.

7. The figures indicated are changed in the transcript to "first,"
"secondly," "thirdly," etc.

8. The words "it should" are here inserted in the transcript.

9. The figures indicated are changed in the transcript to "First,"
"Secondly," etc.

10. The word "the" is crossed out in the transcript.

11. The word "and" is here inserted in the transcript.

12. This direction and the heading are omitted in the transcript.

13. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

14. The word "independency" is changed to "independence" in the transcript.

15. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

16. The phrase "of any treaty subsisting under the authority of the
Union" is here added in the transcript.

17. The word "years" is omitted in the transcript.

18. The word "or" is changed to "nor" in the transcript.

19. The fifteen resolutions, constituting the "Virginia Plan," are in
Madison's handwriting.

*20. This Abstract of the speech was furnished to J. M. by Mr. Randolph
and is in his handwriting. [21] As a report of it from him had been
relied on, it was omitted by J. M.

21. This sentence is omitted on the transcript.

22. Robert Yates, a delegate from New York, gives the following account
of Pinckney's motion: "Mr. C. Pinkney, a member from South-Carolina,
then added, that he had reduced his ideas of a new government of to a
system, which he read, and confessed that it was grounded on the same
principle as of the above resolutions." (Secret Proceedings of the
Federal Convention (1821), p. 97.)

23. The words, "Mr. P. plan," are omitted in the transcript, and what
purports to be the plan itself is here inserted.

Madison himself did not take a copy of the draft nor did Pinckney
furnish him one, as he did a copy of his speech which he later delivered
in the Convention and which is printed as a part of the debates (session
of Monday, June 25). Many years later, in 1818, when John Quincy Adams,
then Secretary of State, was preparing the Journal of the Convention for
publication, he wrote to Pinckney, requesting a copy of his plan, and,
in compliance with this request, Pinckey sent him what purported to be
the draft, but which appears to have been a copy of the report of the
Committee of Detail of August 6, 1787, with certain alterations and
additions. The alleged draft and Pinckney's letter transmitting it were
written upon paper bearing the water-mark, "Russell & Co. 1797."

The Pinckney draft was not debated; it was neither used in the Committee
of the Whole nor in the Convention. It was however referred to the
Committee of Detail, which appears to have made some use of it, as
extracts from it have been identified by J. Franklin Jameson and an
outline of it discovered by Andrew C. McLaughlin, among the papers and
in the handwriting of James Wilson, a delegate from Pennsylvania,
deposited with the Pennsylvania Historial Society.


