FRIDAY  AUGUST 31st  1787 [1]  IN CONVENTION

Mr. KING moved to add to the end of art: XXI the words "between the said
States" so as to confine the operation of the Govt. to the States
ratifying it.

On the question

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Md. no. Virga. ay. N. C.
ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [2]

Mr. MADISON proposed to fill the blank in the article with "any seven or
more States entitled to thirty three members at least in the House of
Representatives according to the allotment made in the 3 Sect: of art:
4." This he said would require the concurrence of a majority both of the
States and [3] people.

Mr. SHERMAN doubted the propriety of authorizing less than all the
States to execute the Constitution, considering the nature of the
existing Confederation. Perhaps all the States may concur, and on that
supposition it is needless to hold out a breach of faith.

Mr. CLYMER and Mr. CARROL moved to postpone the consideration of Art:
XXI in order to take up the Reports of Committees not yet acted on. On
this question, the States were equally divided.

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. divd. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no.
N. C no. S. C. no. G. ay. [4]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to strike out "Conventions of the" after
"ratifications," leaving the States to pursue their own modes of
ratification.

Mr. CARROL mentioned the mode of altering the Constitution of Maryland
pointed out therein, and that no other mode could be pursued in that
State.

Mr. KING thought that striking out "Conventions" as the requisite mode
was equivalent to giving up the business altogether. Conventions alone,
which will avoid all the obstacles from the complicated formation of the
Legislatures, will succeed, and if not positively required by the plan,
its enemies will oppose that mode.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS said he meant to facilitate the adoption of the plan,
by leaving the modes approved by the several State Constitutions to be
followed.

Mr. MADISON considered it best to require Conventions; among other
reasons, for this, that the powers given to the Genl. Govt. being taken
from the State Govts. the Legislatures would be more disinclined than
conventions composed in part at least of other men; and if disinclined,
they could devise modes apparently promoting, but really, thwarting the
ratification. The difficulty in Maryland was no greater than in other
States, where no mode of change was pointed out by the Constitution, and
all officers were under oath to support it. The people were in fact, the
fountain of all power, and by resorting to them, all difficulties were
got over. They could alter constitutions as they pleased. It was a
principle in the Bills of rights, that first principles might be
resorted to.

Mr. Mc.HENRY said that the officers of Govt. in Maryland were under oath
to support the mode of alteration prescribed by the Constitution.

Mr. GHORUM, urged the expediency of "Conventions" also Mr. PINKNEY, for
reasons, formerly urged on a discussion of this question.

Mr. L. MARTIN insisted on a reference to the State Legislatures. He
urged the danger of commotions from a resort to the people & to first
principles in which the Governments might be on one side & the people on
the other. He was apprehensive of no such consequences however in
Maryland, whether the Legislature or the people should be appealed to.
Both of them would be generally against the Constitution. He repeated
also the peculiarity in the Maryland Constitution.

Mr. KING observed that the Constitution of Massachussets was made
unalterable till the year 1790, yet this was no difficulty with him. The
State must have contemplated a recurrence to first principles before
they sent deputies to this Convention.

Mr. SHERMAN moved to postpone art. XXI [5] & [6] take up art: XXII [5]
on which question,

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. P. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. no S. C. no. Geo. no. [7]

On Mr. Govr. Morris's motion to strike out "Conventions of the," it was
negatived.

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no. S.
C. no. Geo. ay. [8]

On [9] filling the blank in Art: XXI with "thirteen" moved by Mr. CARROL
& L. MARTIN

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no -- all no. except Maryland. [10]

Mr. SHERMAN & Mr. DAYTON moved to fill the blank with "ten"

Mr. WILSON supported the motion of Mr. MADISON, requiring a majority
both of the people and of States.

Mr. CLYMER was also in favor of it.

Col: MASON was for preserving ideas familiar to the people. Nine States
had been required in all great cases under the Confederation & that
number was on that account preferable

On the question for "ten"

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [11]

On question for "nine"

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. ay [12]

Art: XXI. as amended was then agreed to by all the States, Maryland
excepted, & Mr. Jenifer being, ay.

Art: XXII [32, 13] taken up, to wit, "This Constitution shall be laid
before the U. S. in Congs. assembled for their approbation; and it is
the opinion of this Convention that it should be afterwards submitted to
a Convention chosen, in each State under the recommendation of its
Legislature, in order to receive the ratification of such Convention"

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS & Mr. PINKNEY moved to strike out the words "for their
approbation" On this question

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. [*14] Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [15]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS & Mr. PINKNEY then moved to amend the art: so as to
read

"This Constitution shall be laid before the U. S. in Congress assembled;
and it is the opinion of this Convention that it should afterwards be
submitted to a Convention chosen in each State, in order to receive the
ratification of such Convention: to which end the several Legislatures
ought to provide for the calling Conventions within their respective
States as speedily as circumstances will permit." -- Mr. GOVr. MORRIS
said his object was to impress in stronger terms the necessity of
calling Conventions in order to prevent enemies to the plan, from giving
it the go by. When it first appears, with the sanction of this
Convention, the people will be favorable to it. By degrees the State
officers, & those interested in the State Govts. will intrigue & turn
the popular current against it.

Mr. L. MARTIN believed Mr. Morris to be right, that after a while the
people would be agst. it, but for a different reason from that alledged.
He believed they would not ratify it unless hurried into it by surprize.

Mr. GERRY enlarged on the idea of Mr. L. Martin in which he concurred,
represented the system as full of vices, and dwelt on the impropriety of
distroying the existing Confederation, without the unanimous consent of
the parties to it.

[16] Question on Mr. Govr. Morris's & Mr. Pinkney's motion

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [17]

Mr. GERRY moved to postpone art: XXII.

Col: MASON 2ded. the motion, declaring that he would sooner chop off his
right hand than put it to the Constitution as it now stands. He wished
to see some points not yet decided brought to a decision, before being
compelled to give a final opinion on this article. Should these points
be improperly settled, his wish would then be to bring the whole subject
before another general Convention.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS was ready for a postponement. He had long wished for
another Convention, that will have the firmness to provide a vigorous
Government, which we are afraid to do.

Mr. RANDOLPH stated his idea to be, in case the final form of the
Constitution should not permit him to accede to it, that the State
Conventions should be at liberty to propose amendments to be submitted
to another General Convention which may reject or incorporate them, as
shall [18] be judged proper.

On the question for postponing

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [19]

On the question on Art: XXII

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [20]

Art: XXIII [21] being taken up, as far as the words "assigned by
Congress" inclusive, was agreed to nem: con: the blank having been first
filled with the word "nine" as of course.

On a motion for postponement the residue of the clause, concerning the
choice of the President &c.

N. H. no. Mas. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [22]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS then moved to strike out the words "choose the
President of the U. S. and" -- this point, of choosing the President not
being yet finally determined, & on this question

N. H. no. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay Del. ay. Md. divd. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. [*23] Geo. ay. [24]

Art: XXIII as amended was then agreed to nem: con:

The Report of the Grand Committee of eleven made by Mr. SHERMAN was then
taken up (see Aug: 28). [25]

On the question to agree to the following clause, to be inserted after
Sect. 4. art: VII. "nor shall any regulation of commerce or revenue give
preference to the ports of one State over those of another." Agreed to
nem: con:

On the clause "or oblige vessels bound to or from any State to enter
clear or pay duties in another"

Mr. MADISON thought the restriction wd. be inconvenient, as in the River
Delaware, if a vessel cannot be required to make entry below the
jurisdiction of Pennsylvania.

Mr. FITZIMMONS admitted that it might be inconvenient, but thought it
would be a greater inconveniency [26] to require vessels bound to
Philada. to enter below the jurisdiction of the State.

Mr. GORHAM & Mr. LANGDON, contended that the Govt. would be so fettered
by this clause, as to defeat the good purpose of the plan. They
mentioned the situation of the trade of Mas. & N. Hampshire, the case of
Sandy Hook which is in the State of N. Jersey, but where precautions
agst. smuggling into N. York, ought to be established by the Genl.
Government.

Mr. Mc.HENRY said the clause would not shreeen a vessel from being
obliged to take an officer on board as a security for due entry &c.

Mr. CARROL was anxious that the clause should be agreed to. He assured
the House, that this was a tender point in Maryland.

Mr. JENNIFER urged the necessity of the clause in the same point of
view.

On the question for agreeing to it

N. H. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. ay.
S. C. no. Geo. ay. [27]

The word "tonnage" was struck out, nem: con: as comprehended in "duties"

On [28] question on the clause of the Report "and all duties, imposts &
excises, laid by the Legislature shall be uniform throughout the U. S."
It was agreed to nem: con: [*29]

On motion of Mr. SHERMAN it was agreed to refer such parts of the
Constitution as have been postponed, and such parts of Reports as have
not been acted on, to a Committee of a member from each State; the
Committee appointed by ballot, being -- Mr. Gilman, Mr. King, Mr.
Sherman, Mr. Brearly, Mr. Govr. Morris, Mr. Dickinson, Mr. Carrol, Mr.
Madison, Mr. Williamson, Mr. Butler & Mr. Baldwin.

[The House [31] adjourned]

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. In place of the vote by State the transcript reads: "nine States
voted in the affirmative; Maryland, no; Delaware, absent."

3. The word "the" is here in the transcript.

4. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Georgia, aye -- 5; Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 5; Connecticut,
divided."

5. See ante.

6. The word "to" is here inserted in the transcript.

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 5; New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

8. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, Georgia, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Delaware, Virginia, South Carolina, no -- 6."

9. The words "the question for" are here inserted in the transcript.

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "all the States were no, except
Maryland."

11. In the transcript the vote reads: Connecticut, New Jersey, Maryland,
Georgia, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 7."

12. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Georgia, aye
-- 8; Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 3."

13. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

*14. In the printed Journal N. Jersey -- no.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Connecticut, New
Jersey, [23] Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, aye -- 8; Massachusetts, Maryland, Georgia, no -- 3".

16. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

17. In the transcript the vote reads: New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, aye -- 4; Connecticut, New Jersey, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 7."

18. The word "may" is substituted in the transcript for "shall."

19. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Maryland, North
Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

20. In the transcript the vote reads: ten States aye; Maryland no."

21. See ante.

22. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Delaware,
Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- . 7"

*23. In printed Journal -- S.C. -- no.

24. In the transcript the vote read: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, [23] Georgia, aye -- 9; New Hampshire, no; Maryland, divided."

25. In the transcript this date reads "the twenty-eighth of August."

26. The word "inconveniency" is changed to "inconvenience" in the
transcript.

27. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, aye -- 8;
New Hampshire, South Carolina, no -- 8."

28. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

*29. In printed Journal N.H. and S.C. entered as [30] in the negative.

30. The word "as" is omitted in the transcript.

31. The words "The House" are omitted in the transcript.

32. See ante.


