FRIDAY  AUGUST 24, 1787 [1]  IN CONVENTION

Governour LIVINGSTON, from the Committee of Eleven, to whom were
referred the two remaining clauses of the 4th. Sect & the 5 & 6 Sect: of
the 7th. art: [2] delivered in the following Report:

"Strike out so much of the 4th Sect: as was referred to the Committee
and insert -- "The migration or importation of such persons as the
several States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be
prohibited by the Legislature prior to the year 1800, but a tax or duty
may be imposed on such migration or importation at a rate not exceeding
the average of the duties laid on imports."

"The 5 Sect: to remain as in the Report"

"The 6 Sect to be stricken out"

Mr. BUTLER, according to notice, moved that clause 1st. sect. 1. of Art
VII, as to the discharge of debts, be reconsidered tomorrow. He dwelt on
the division of opinion concerning the domestic debts, and the different
pretensions of the different classes of holders.

Genl. PINKNEY 2ded. him.

Mr. RANDOLPH wished for a reconsideration in order to better the
expression, and to provide for the case of the State debts as is done by
Congress.

On the question for reconsidering

N. H. no. Mas: ay. Cont. ay N. J. ay. Pena. absent. Del. ay Md. no. Va.
ay. N. C. absent, S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [3] -- and tomorrow assigned for
the reconsideration.

Sect: 2 & 3 of art: IX [4] being taken up,

Mr. RUTLIDGE said this provision for deciding controversies between the
States was necessary under the Confederation, but will be rendered
unnecessary by the National Judiciary now to be established, and moved
to strike it out.

DOCr. JOHNSON 2ded. the Motion

Mr. SHERMAN concurred: so did Mr. DAYTON.

Mr. WILLIAMSON was for postponing instead of striking out, in order to
consider whether this might not be a good provision, in cases where the
Judiciary were interested or too closely connected with the parties.

Mr. GHORUM had doubts as to striking out. The Judges might be connected
with the States being parties -- He was inclined to think the mode
proposed in the clause would be more satisfactory than to refer such
cases to the Judiciary.

On the Question for postponing the 2d. & 3d. Section, it passed in the
negative

N. H. ay. Masts. no. Cont. no N. J. no. Pena. abst. Del. no. Md. no. Va.
no. N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [5]

Mr. WILSON urged the striking out, the Judiciary being a better
provision.

On Question for striking out [6] 2 & 3 Sections [7] Art: IX N. H. ay.
Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. abst Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. no.
S. C. ay. Geo. no. [8]

Art. X. sect. 1. [9] "The executive power of the U. S. shall be vested
in a single person. His stile shall be "The President of the U. S. of
America" and his title shall be "His Excellency." He shall be elected by
ballot by the Legislature. He shall hold his office during the term of
seven years; but shall not be elected a second time.

On the question for vesting the power in a single person. It was agreed
to nem: con: So also on the Stile and title.

Mr. RUTLIDGE moved to insert "joint" before the word "ballot," as the
most convenient mode of electing.

Mr. SHERMAN objected to it as depriving the States represented in the
Senate of the negative intended them in that house.

Mr. GHORUM said it was wrong to be considering at every turn whom the
Senate would represent. The public good was the true object to be kept
in view. Great delay and confusion would ensue if the two Houses shd.
vote separately, each having a negative on the choice of the other.

Mr. DAYTON. It might be well for those not to consider how the Senate
was constituted, whose interest it was to keep it out of sight. -- If
the amendment should be agreed to, a joint [10] ballot would in fact
give the appointment to one House. He could never agree to the clause
with such an amendment. There could be no doubt of the two Houses
separately concurring in the same person for President. The importance &
necessity of the case would ensure a concurrence.

Mr. CARROL moved to strike out "by the Legislature" and insert "by the
people."

Mr. WILSON 2ded. him & on the question

N. H. no. Massts. no. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va.
no N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [11]

Mr. BREARLY was opposed to the motion for [12] inserting the word
"joint." The argument that the small States should not put their hands
into the pockets of the large ones did not apply in this case.

Mr. WILSON urged the reasonableness of giving the larger States a larger
share of the appointment, and the danger of delay from a disagreement of
the two Houses. He remarked also that the Senate had peculiar powers
balancing the advantage given by a joint balot in this case to the other
branch of the Legislature.

Mr. LANGDON. This general officer ought to be elected by the joint &
general voice. In N. Hampshire the mode of separate votes by the two
Houses was productive of great difficulties. The negative of the Senate
would hurt the feelings of the man elected by the votes of the other
branch. He was for inserting "joint" tho' unfavorable to N. Hampshire as
a small State.

Mr. WILSON remarked that as the President of the Senate was to be
President of the U. S. that Body in cases of vacancy might have an
interest in throwing dilatory obstacles in the way, if its separate
concurrence should be required.

Mr. MADISON. If the amendment be agreed to the rule of voting will give
to the largest State, compared with the smallest, an influence as 4 to 1
only, altho the population is as 10 to 1. This surely can not be
unreasonable as the President is to act for the people not for the
States. The President of the Senate also is to be occasionally President
of the U. S. and by his negative alone can make 3/4 of the other branch
necessary to the passage of a law. This is another advantage enjoyed by
the Senate.

On the question for inserting "joint," it passed in the affirmative

N. H. ay. Masts. ay. Ct. no. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [13]

Mr. DAYTON then moved to insert, after the word "Legislatures" [14] the
words "each State having one vote" Mr. BREARLEY 2ded. him, and on the
question it passed in the negative

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. ay. [15]

Mr. PINKNEY moved to insert after the word "Legislature" the words "to
which election a majority of the votes of the members present shall be
required" &

On this question, it passed in the affirmative

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [16]

Mr. READ moved "that in case the numbers for the two highest in votes
should be equal, then the President of the Senate shall have an
additional casting vote," which was disagreed to by a general negative.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS opposed the election of the President by the
Legislature. He dwelt on the danger of rendering the Executive
uninterested in maintaining the rights of his Station, as leading to
Legislative tyranny. If the Legislature have the Executive depedent on
them, they can perpetuate & support their usurpations by the influence
of tax-gatherers & other officers, by fleets armies &c. Cabal &
corruption are attached to that mode of election: so also [17] is
ineligibility a second time. Hence the Executive is interested in
Courting popularity in the Legislature by sacrificing his Executive
Rights; & then he can go into that Body, after the expiration of his
Executive office, and enjoy there the fruits of his policy. To these
considerations he added that rivals would be continually intrigueing to
oust the President from his place. To guard against all these evils he
moved that the President "shall be chosen by Electors to be chosen by
the People of the several States"

Mr. CARROL 2ded. him & on the question it passed in the negative.

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [18]

Mr. DAYTON moved to postpone the consideration of the two last clauses
of Sect. 1. art. X. which was disagreed to without a count of the
States.

Mr. BROOME moved to refer the two clauses to a Committee of a member
from each State, & on the question, it failed the States being equally
divided

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. divd. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [19]

On the question taken on the first part of Mr. Govr. Morris's Motion
towit "shall be chosen by electors" as an abstract question, it failed
the States being equally divided.

N. H. no. Mas. abst. Ct. divd. N. Jersey ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. divd.
Va. ay. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [20]

The consideration of the remaining clauses of Sect 1. art X. was then
postponed till tomorrow at the instance of the Deputies of New Jersey.

Sect. 2. Art: X [21] being taken up, the word information was transposed
& inserted after "Legislature"

On motion of Mr. GOVr. MORRIS, "he may" was struck out, & "and" inserted
before "recommend" in clause 2d. sect 2d. art: X. in order to make it
the duty of the President to recommend, & thence prevent umbrage or
cavil at his doing it.

Mr. SHERMAN objected to the sentence "and shall appoint officers in all
cases not otherwise provided for by [22] this Constitution." He admitted
it to be proper that many officers in the Executive Department should be
so appointed -- but contended that many ought not, as general officers
in the army in time of peace &c. Herein lay the corruption in G.
Britain. If the Executive can model the army, he may set up an absolute
Government; taking advantage of the close of a war and an army commanded
by his creatures. James 2d. was not obeyed by his officers because they
had been appointed by his predecessors not by himself. He moved to
insert "or by law" after the word "Constitution."

On Motion of Mr. MADISON "officers" was truck out and "to offices"
inserted, in order to obviate doubts that he might appoint officers
without a previous creation of the offices by the Legislature.

On the question for inserting "or by law as moved by Mr. Sherman

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pena. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no.
N. C. absent. S. C. no. Geo. no. [23]

Mr. DICKINSON moved to strike out the words "and shall appoint to
offices in all cases not otherwise provided for by this Constitution"
and insert -- "and shall appoint to all offices established by this
Constitution, except in cases herein otherwise provided for, and to all
offices which may hereafter be created by law."

Mr. RANDOLPH observed that the power of appointments was a formidable
one both in the Executive & Legislative hands -- and suggested whether
the Legislature should not be left at liberty to refer appointments in
some cases, to some State authority.

Mr. DICKENSON's motion, it [24] passed in the affirmative N. H. no. Mas.
no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. ay. N. C. abst. S. C.
no. Geo. ay. [25]

Mr. DICKINSON then moved to annex to his last amendment "except where by
law the appointment shall be vested in the Legislatures or Executives of
the several States." Mr. RANDOLPH 2ded. the motion

Mr. WILSON -- If this be agreed to it will soon be a standing
instruction from the State Legislatures to pass no law creating offices,
unless the appts. be referred to them.

Mr. SHERMAN objected to "Legislatures" in the motion, which was struck
out by consent of the movers.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. This would be putting it in the power of the States to
say, "You shall be viceroys but we will be viceroys over you" -- 

The Motion was negatived without a Count of the States -- 

Ordered unanimously that the order respecting the adjournment at 4
OClock be repealed, & that in future the House assemble at 10 OC. &
adjourn at 3 OC. [26]

Adjourned

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. See ante.

3. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Delaware, Virginia, South Carolina, Geogia, aye -- 7; New
Hampshire, Maryland, no -- 2; Pennsylvania, North Carolina, absent."

4. See ante.

5. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, North Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 3; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware,
Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, no -- 7; Pennsylvania, absent."

6. The word "the " is here inserted in the transcript.

7. The word "of" is here inserted in the transcript.

8. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina,
aye -- 8; North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 2; Pennsylvania, absent."

9. See ante.

10. The transcript does not italicize the word "joint."

11. In the transcript the vote reads: "Pennsylvania, Delaware, aye -- 2;
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 9."

12. The words "the motion for" are omitted in the transcript.

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, aye --
7; Connecticut, New Jersey, Maryland, Georgia, no -- 4."

14. In the transcript the word "Legislatures" is in the singular.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, Georgia, aye -- 5; New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, no -- 6."

16. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 10; New Jersey, no -- 1."

17. The word "also" is omitted in the transcript.

18. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Virginia, aye -- 5; New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no --
6."

19. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 5; New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 5; Connecticut, divided."

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Virginia, aye -- 4; New Hampshire, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, no -- 4; Connecticut, Maryland, divided;
Massachusetts, absent."

21. See ante.

22. The word "in" is substituted in the transcript for "by."

23. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, aye -- 1; New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 9; North Carolina, absent."

24. The word "it" is omitted in the transcript.

25. In the transcript the vote reads: "Connecticut, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Georgia, aye -- 6; New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, Delaware, South Carolina, no -- 4; North Carolina,
absent."

26. The letters "OC" are omitted in the transcript.


