THURSDAY  AUGUST 30th 1787. [1]  IN CONVENTION

Art XVII [2] resumed for a question on it as amended by Mr. Govr.
Morris's substitutes. [3]

Mr. CARROL moved to strike out so much of the article as requires the
consent of the State to its being divided. He was aware that the object
of this prerequisite might be to prevent domestic disturbances, but such
was our situation with regard to the Crown lands, and the sentiments of
Maryland on that subject, that he perceived we should again be at sea,
if no guard was provided for the right of the U. States to the back
lands. He suggested that it might be proper to provide that nothing in
the Constitution should affect the Right of the U. S. to lands ceded by
G. Britain in the Treaty of peace, and proposed a committment to a
member from each State. He assured the House that this was a point of a
most serious nature. It was desirable above all things that the act of
the Convention might be agreed to unanimously. But should this point be
disregarded, he believed that all risks would be run by a considerable
minority, sooner than give their concurrence.

Mr. L. MARTIN 2ded. the motion for a committment.

Mr. RUTLIDGE is it to be supposed that the States are to be cut up
without their own consent. The case of Vermont will probably be
particularly provided for. There could be no room to fear, that Virginia
or N. Carolina would call on the U. States to maintain their Government
over the Mountains.

Mr. WILLIAMSON said that N. Carolina was well disposed to give up her
western lands, but attempts at compulsion was [4] not the policy of the
U. S. He was for doing nothing in the constitution in the present case,
and for leaving the whole matter in Statu quo.

Mr. WILSON was against the committment. Unanimity was of great
importance, but not to be purchased by the majority's yielding to the
minority. He should have no objection to leaving the case of [5] new
States as heretofore. He knew of [6] nothing that would give greater or
juster alarm than the doctrine, that a political society is to be torne
asunder without its own consent. On Mr. Carrol's motion for commitment

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [7]

Mr. SHERMAN moved to postpone the substitute for art: XVII agreed to
yesterday in order to take up the following amendment "The Legislature
shall have power to admit other States into the Union, and new States to
be formed by the division or junction of States now in the Union, with
the consent of the Legislature of such States." [The first part was
meant for the case of Vermont to secure its admission.]

On the question, it passed in the negative

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. ay. Geo. no. [8]

DOCr. JOHNSON moved to insert the words "hereafter formed or" after the
words "shall be" in the substitute for art: XVII, [the more clearly to
save Vermont as being already formed into a State, from a dependence on
the consent of N. York to [9] her admission.] The motion was agreed to
Del. & Md. only dissenting.

Mr. GOVERNr. MORRIS moved to strike out the word "limits" in the
substitute, and insert the word "jurisdiction" [This also [10] meant to
guard the case of Vermont, the jurisdiction of N. York not extending
over Vermont which was in the exercise of sovereignty, tho' Vermont was
within the asserted limits of New York]

On this question

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [11]

Mr. L. MARTIN, urged the unreasonableness of forcing & guaranteeing the
people of Virginia beyond the Mountains, the Western people, of N.
Carolina, & of Georgia, & the people of Maine, to continue under the
States now governing them, without the consent of those States to their
separation. Even if they should become the majority, the majority of
Counties, as in Virginia may still hold fast the dominion over them.
Again the majority may place the seat of Government entirely among
themselves & for their own conveniency, [12] and still keep the injured
parts of the States in subjection, under the guarantee of the Genl.
Government agst. domestic violence. He wished Mr. Wilson had thought a
little sooner of the value of political bodies. In the beginning, when
the rights of the small States were in question, they were phantoms,
ideal beings. Now when the Great States were to be affected, political
societies were of a sacred nature. He repeated and enlarged on the
unreasonableness of requiring the small States to guarantee the Western
claims of the large ones. -- It was said yesterday by Mr. Govr. Morris,
that if the large States were to be split to pieces without their
consent, their representatives here would take their leave. If the Small
States are to be required to guarantee them in this manner, it will be
found that the Representatives of other States will with equal firmness
take their leave of the Constitution on the table.

It was moved by Mr. L. MARTIN to postpone the substituted article, in
order to take up the following. "The Legislature of the U. S. shall have
power to erect New States within as well as without the territory
claimed by the several States or either of them, and admit the same into
the Union: provided that nothing in this constitution shall be construed
to affect the claim of the U. S. to vacant lands ceded to them by the
late treaty of peace. which passed in the negative: N. J. Del. & Md.
only ay.

On the question to agree to Mr. Govr. Morris's substituted article as
amended in the words following,

"New States may be admitted by the Legislature into the Union: but no
new State shall be hereafter formed or erected within the jurisdiction
of any of the present States without the consent of the Legislature of
such State as well as of the General Legislature"

N. H. ay. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. no. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [13]

Mr. DICKINSON moved to add the following clause to the last -- "Nor
shall any State be formed by the junction of two or more States or parts
thereof, without the consent of the Legislatures of such States, as well
as of the Legislature of the U. States." which was agreed to without a
count of the votes.

Mr. CARROL moved to add -- "Provided nevertheless that nothing in this
Constitution shall be construed to affect the claim of the U. S. to
vacant lands ceded to them by the Treaty of peace." This he said might
be understood as relating to lands not claimed by any particular States,
but he had in view also some of the claims of particular States.

Mr. WILSON was agst. the motion. There was nothing in the Constitution
affecting one way or the other the claims of the U. S. & it was best to
insert nothing leaving every thing on that litigated subject in statu
quo.

Mr. MADISON considered the claim of the U. S. as in fact favored
by the jurisdiction of the judicial power of the U. S. over
controversies to which they whould be parties. He thought it best
on the whole to be silent on the subject. He did not view the
proviso of Mr. Carrol as dangerous; but to make it neutral & fair,
it ought to go farther & declare that the claims of particular States
also should not be affected.

Mr. SHERMAN thought the proviso harmless, especially with the addition
suggested by Mr. Madison in favor of the claims of particular States.

Mr. BALDWIN did not wish any undue advantage to be given to Georgia. He
thought the proviso proper with the addition proposed. It should be
remembered that if Georgia has gained much by the cession in the Treaty
of peace, she was in danger during the war, of a Uti possidetis.

Mr. RUTLIDGE thought it wrong to insert a proviso where there was
nothing which it could restrain, or on which it could operate.

Mr. CARROL withdrew his motion and moved the following. "Nothing in this
Constitution shall be construed to alter the claims of the U. S. or of
the individual States to the Western territory, but all such claims
shall be examined into & decided upon, by the Supreme Court of the U.
States."

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS moved to postpone this in order to take up the
following.

"The Legislature shall have power to dispose of and make all needful
rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property
belonging to the U. States; and nothing in this constitution contained,
shall be so construed as to prejudice any claims either of the U. S. or
of any particular State." -- The postponemt. agd. to nem. con.

Mr. L. MARTIN moved to amend the proposition of Mr. Govr. Morris by
adding -- "But all such claims may be examined into & decided upon by
the supreme Court of the U. States."

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS. this is unnecessary, as all suits to which the U. S.
are parties, are already to be decided by the Supreme Court.

Mr. L. MARTIN, it is propor in order to remove all doubts on this
point.

[14] Question on Mr. L. Martin's amendatory motion

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no --
[15] States not farther called the negatives being sufficient & the
point [16] given up.

The Motion of Mr. Govr. Morris was then agreed to, Md. alone dissenting.

Art: XVIII [17] being taken up, -- the word "foreign" was struck out.
nem: con: as superfluous, being implied in the term "invasion."

Mr. DICKINSON moved to strike out "on the application of its
Legislature, against" He thought it of essential importance to the
tranquility of the U. S. that they should in all cases suppress domestic
violence, which may proceed from the State Legislature itself, or from
disputes between the two branches where such exist

Mr. DAYTON mentioned the Conduct of Rho: Island as shewing the necessity
of giving latitude to the power of the U. S. on this subject.

On the question

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. no. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [18]

On a question for striking out "domestic violence" and insertg.
"insurrections." It passed in the negative.

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N.
C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [19]

Mr. DICKINSON moved to insert the words, "or Executive" after the words
"application of its Legislature" -- The occasion itself he remarked
might hinder the Legislature from meeting.

On this question

N. H. ay. Mas. no. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. divd. Va. no.
N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [20]

Mr. L. MARTIN moved to subjoin to the last amendment the words "in the
recess of the Legislature"

On which question [21] 

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. ay. Va. no. N. C. no. S.
C. no. Geo. no.

On [22] Question on the last clause as amended

N. H. Mas. ay. Ct. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. no. Md. no. Va. ay. N. C.
ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [23]

Art: XIX [24, 25] taken up.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS suggested that the Legislature should be left at
liberty to call a Convention, whenever they please.

The art: was agreed to nem: con:

Art: XX. [24, 25] taken up. -- [26] "or affirmation" was [27] added
after "oath."

Mr. PINKNEY moved to add to the art: -- "but no religious test shall
ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under
the authority of the U. States"

Mr. SHERMAN thought it unnecessary, the prevailing liberality being a
sufficient security agst. such tests.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS & Genl. PINKNEY approved the motion. The motion was
agreed to nem: con: and then then whole

Article; N. C. only no -- & Md. divided 

Art: XXI. [28, 29] taken up. viz: [30] The ratifications of the
Conventions of _____ States shall be sufficient for organizing this
Constitution."

Mr. WILSON proposed to fill the blank with "seven" that being a majority
of the whole number & sufficient for the commencement of the plan.

Mr. CARROL moved to postpone the article in order to take up the Report
of the Committee of Eleven (see Tuesday Augst. 28) [31] -- and on the
question

N. H. no. Mas. no. Ct. no. N. J. ay. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. no. N.
C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [32]

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS thought the blank ought to be filled in a twofold way,
so as to provide for the event of the ratifying States being contiguous
which would render a smaller number sufficient, and the event of their
being dispersed, which wd. require a greater number for the introduction
of the Government.

Mr. SHERMAN. observed that the States being now confederated by articles
which require unanimity in changes, he thought the ratification in this
case of ten States at least ought to be made necessary.

Mr. RANDOLPH was for filling the blank with "nine" that being a
respectable majority of the whole, and being a number made familiar by
the constitution of the existing Congress.

Mr. WILSON mentioned "eight" as preferable.

Mr. DICKINSON asked whether the concurrence of Congress is to be
essential to the establishment of the system, whether the refusing
States in the Confederacy could be deserted -- and whether Congress
could concur in contravening the system under which they acted?

Mr. MADISON, remarked that if the blank should be filled with "seven"
eight, or "nine" -- the Constitution as it stands might be put in force
over the whole body of the people, tho' less than a majority of them
should ratify it.

Mr. WILSON. As the Constitution stands, the States only which ratify can
be bound. We must he said in this case go to the original powers of
Society. The House on fire must be extinguished, without a scrupulous
regard to ordinary rights.

Mr. BUTLER was in favor of "nine." He revolted at the idea, that one or
two States should restrain the rest from consulting their safety.

Mr. CARROL moved to fill the blank with "the thirteen," unanimity being
necessary to dissolve the existing confederacy which had been
unanimously established.

Mr. KING thought this amendt. necessary, otherwise as the Constitution
now stands it will operate on the whole though ratified by a part only.

Adjourned

___________

1. The year "1787" is omitted in the transcript.

2. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

3. The transcript uses the word "substitutes" in the singular.

4. In the transcript the word "was" is crossed out and "were" is written
above it.

5. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

6. The word "of" is omitted in the transcript.

7. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland,
aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina, aye -- 5; New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North
Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

8. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, aye -- 5; New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, no -- 6."

9. The word "for" is substituted in the transcript for "to."

10. The word "was" is here inserted in the transcript.

11. In the transcript the vote reads: New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, aye -- 7; New
Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 4."

12. The word "conveniency" is changed to "convenience" in the
transcript.

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 8; New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, no -- 3."

14. The words "On the" are here inserted in the transcript.

15. In the transcript the vote reads: New Jersey, Maryland, aye -- 2;
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Virginia, no -- 6."

16. The word "being" is here inserted in the transcript.

17. See ante.

18. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."

19. In the transcript the vote reads: New Jersey, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 5; New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, no -- 6."

20. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
aye -- 8; Massachusetts, Virginia, no -- 2; Maryland, divided."

21. the transcript here adds the words: "Maryland only, aye," and omits
the vote by States.

22. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

23. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 9; Delaware, Maryland, no -- 2 "

24. See ante.

25. The words "was then" are here inserted in the transcript.

26. The expression "the words" is here inserted in the transcript.

27. In the transcript the word "was" is crossed out and "were" is
written above it.

28. See ante.

29. The words "being then" are here inserted in the transcript.

30. The word "viz" is omitted in the transcript.

31. The words "the twenty-eighth of August" are substituted in the
transcript for "Tuesday Augst. 28."

32. In the transcript the vote reads: "New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland,
aye -- 3; New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 8."


