TEUSDAY.  JULY 10.   IN CONVENTION

Mr. KING reported from the Come. yesterday appointed that the States at
the 1st. meeting of the General Legislature, should be represented by 65
members in the following proportions, to wit.

N. Hamshire by 3. Masts. 8. R. 1st. 1. Cont. 5. N. Y. 6. N. J. 4. Pa. 8.
Del. 1. Md. 6. Va. 10. N. C. 5. S. C. 5. Georgia 3.

Mr. RUTLIDGE moved that N. Hampshire be reduced from 3 to 2. members.
Her numbers did not entitle her to 3 and it was a poor State.

Genl. PINKNEY seconds the motion.

Mr. KING. N. Hamshire has probably more than 120,000 Inhabts. and has an
extensive Country of tolerable fertility. Its inhabts therefore may [1]
be expected to increase fast. He remarked that the four Eastern States
having 800,000 souls, have 1/3 fewer representatives than the four
Southern States, having not more than 700,000 souls rating the blacks,
as 5 for 3. The Eastern people will advert to these circumstances, and
be dissatisfied. He believed them to be very desirous of uniting with
their Southern brethren, but did not think it prudent to rely so far on
that disposition as to subject them to any gross inequality. He was
fully convinced that the question concerning a difference of interests
did not lie where it had hitherto been discussed, between the great &
small States; but between the Southern & Eastern. For this reason he had
been ready to yield something in the proportion of representatives for
the security of the Southern. No principle would justify the giving them
a majority. They were brought as near an equality as was possible. He
was not averse to giving them a still greater security, but did not see
how it could be done.

Genl. PINKNEY. The Report before it was committed was more favorable to
the S. States than as it now stands. If they are to form so considerable
a minority, and the regulation of trade is to be given to the Genl.
Government, they will be nothing more than overseers for the Northern
States. He did not expect the S. States to be raised to a majority of
representatives, but wished them to have something like an equality. At
present by the alterations of the Come. in favor of the N. States they
are removed farther from it than they were before. One member had indeed
[2] been added to Virga. which he was glad of as he considered her as a
Southern State. He was glad also that the members of Georgia were
increased.

Mr. WILLIAMSON was not for reducing N. Hamshire from 3 to 2. but for
reducing some others. The Southn. Interest must be extremely endangered
by the present arrangement. The Northn. States are to have a majority in
the first instance and the means of perpetuating it.

Mr. DAYTON observed that the line between the [3] Northn. & Southern
interest had been improperly drawn: that Pa. was the dividing State,
there being six on each side of her. Genl. PINKNEY urged the reduction,
dwelt on the superior wealth of the Southern States, and insisted on its
having its due weight in the Government.

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS regretted the turn of the debate. The States he found
had many Representatives on the floor. Few he fears [4] were to be
deemed the Representatives of America. He thought the Southern States
have by the report more than their share of representation. Property
ought to have its weight, but not all the weight. If the Southn. States
are to supply money. The Northn. States are to spill their blood.
Besides, the probable Revenue to be expected from the S. States has been
greatly overrated. He was agst. reducing N. Hamshire.

Mr. RANDOLPH was opposed to a reduction of N. Hamshire, not because she
had a full title to three members: but because it was in his
contemplation 1. [5] to make it the duty instead of leaving it in [6]
the discretion of the Legislature to regulate the representation by a
periodical census. 2. [5] to require more than a bare majority of votes
in the Legislature in certain cases, & particularly in commercial cases.

On the question for reducing N. Hamshire from 3 to 2 Represents. it
passed in the negative

Masts. no. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N. C.
ay. [*7] S. C. ay. Geo. no. [*7, 8]

Genl. PINKNEY and Mr. ALEXr. MARTIN moved that 6 Reps. instead of 5 be
allowed to N. Carolina

On the Question, it passed in the negative.

Masts. no. Cont. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va. no. N. C.
ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [9]

Genl. PINKNEY & Mr. BUTLER made the same motion in favor of S. Carolina.

On the Question it passed in the negative

Masts. no. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va.
no. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [10]

Genl. PINKNEY & Mr. HOUSTON moved that Georgia be allowed 4 instead of 3
Reps. urging the unexampled celerity of its population. On the Question,
it passed in the Negative

Masts. no. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. no. Md. no. Va.
ay. N. C. ay. S. C. ay. Geo. ay. [11]

Mr. MADISON, moved that the number allowed to each State be doubled. A
majority of a Quorum of 65 members, was too small a number to to
represent the whole inhabitants of the U. States; They would not possess
enough of the confidence of the people, and wd. be too sparsely taken
from the people, to bring with them all the local information which
would be frequently wanted. Double the number will not be too great,
even with the future additions from New States. The additional expence
was too inconsiderable to be regarded in so important a case. And as far
as the augmentation might be unpopular on that score, the objection was
overbalanced by its effect on the hopes of a greater number of the
popular Candidates.

Mr. ELSEWORTH urged the objection of expence, & that the greater the
number, the more slowly would the business proceed; and the less
probably be decided as it ought, at last. He thought the number of
Representatives too great in most of the State Legislatures: and that a
large number was less necessary in the Genl. Legislature than in those
of the States, -- as its business would relate to a few great, national
Objects only.

Mr. SHERMAN would have preferred 50 to 65. The great distance they will
have to travel will render their attendance precarious and will make it
difficult to prevail on a sufficient number of fit men to undertake the
service. He observed that the expected increase from New States also
deserved consideration.

Mr. GERRY was for increasing the number beyond 65. The larger the
number, the less the danger of their being corrupted. The people are
accustomed to & fond of a numerous representation, and will consider
their rights as better secured by it. The danger of excess in the number
may be guarded agst. by fixing a point within which the number shall
always be kept.

Col. MASON admitted that the objection drawn from the consideration of
expence, had weight both in itself, and as the people might be affected
by it. But he thought it outweighed by the objections agst. the
smallness of the number. 38, will he supposes, as being a majority of
65, form a quorum. 20 will be a majority of 38. This was certainly too
small a number to make laws for America. They would neither bring with
them all the necessary information relative to various local interests,
nor possess the necessary confidence of the people. After doubling the
number, the laws might still be made by so few as almost to be
objectionable on that account.

Mr. READ was in favor of the Motion. Two of the States [Del. & R. I.]
would have but a single member if the aggregate number should remain at
65. and in case of accident to either of these one State wd. have no
representative present to give explanations or informations of its
interests or wishes. The people would not place their confidence in so
small a number. He hoped the objects of the Genl. Govt. would be much
more numerous than seemed to be expected by some gentlemen, and that
they would become more & more so. As to [12] New States the highest
number of Reps. for the whole might be limited, and all danger of excess
thereby prevented.

Mr. RUTLIDGE opposed the motion. The Representatives were too numerous
in all the States. The full number allotted to the States may be
expected to attend & the lowest possible quorum shd. not therefore be
considered. The interests of their Constituents will urge their
attendance too strongly for it to be omitted: and he supposed the Genl.
Legislature would not sit more than 6 or 8 weeks in the year.

On the Question for doubling the number, it passed in the negative.

Masts. no. Cont. no. N. Y. no. N. J. no. Pa. no. Del. ay. Md. no. Va.
ay. N. C. no. S. C. no. Geo. no. [13]

On the question for agreeing to the apportionment of Reps. as amended by
the last committee, it passed in the affirmative

Mas. ay. Cont. ay. N. Y. ay. N. J. ay. Pa. ay. Del. ay. Md. ay. Va. ay.
N. C. ay. S. C. no. Geo. no. [14]

Mr. BROOM gave notice to the House that he had concurred with a reserve
to himself of an intention to claim for his State an equal voice in the
2d. branch: which he thought could not be denied after this concession
of the small States as to the first branch.

Mr. RANDOLPH moved as an amendment to the report of the Comme. of five
"that in order to ascertain the alterations in the population & wealth
of the several States the Legislature should be required to cause a
census, and estimate to be taken within one year after its first
meeting; and every _____ years thereafter -- and that the Legislre.
arrange the Representation accordingly."

Mr. GOVr. MORRIS opposed it as fettering the Legislature too much.
Advantage may be taken of it in time of war or the apprehension of it,
by new States to extort particular favors. If the mode was to be fixed
for taking a census, it might certainly be extremely inconvenient: if
unfixt the Legislature may use such a mode as will defeat the object:
and perpetuate the inequality. He was always agst. such Shackles on the
Legislre. They had been found very pernicious in most of the State
Constitutions. He dwelt much on the danger of throwing such a
preponderancy [15] into the Western Scale, suggesting that in time the
Western people wd. outnumber the Atlantic States. He wished therefore to
put it in the power of the latter to keep a majority of votes in their
own hands. It was objected he said that if the Legislre. are left at
liberty, they will never readjust the Representation. He admitted that
this was possible; but he did not think it probable unless the reasons
agst. a revision of it were very urgent & in this case, it ought not to
be done.

It was moved to postpone the proposition of Mr. Randolph in order to
take up the following, viz. "that the Committee of Eleven, to whom was
referred the report of the Committee of five on the subject of
Representation, be requested to furnish the Convention with the
principles on which they grounded the Report," which was disagreed to:
S. C. only [16] voting in the affirmative.

___________

1. The words "therefore may" are transposed to read "may therefore" in
the transcript.

2. The words "had indeed" are transposed to read "indeed had" in the
transcript.

3. The word "the" is omitted in the transcript.

4. The word "feared" is substituted in the transcript for "fears."

5. The figures "1" and "2" are changed to "first" and "secondly" in the
transcript.

*7. In the printed Journal N. C. no. Georgia ay

8. In the transcript the vote reads: "North Carolina, [7] South
Carolina, aye -- ; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Georgia, [7] no -- 8."

9. In the transcript the vote reads: "North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, aye -- 3; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, no -- 7."

10. In the transcript the vote reads: "Delaware, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye -- 4: Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, no -- 7."

11. In the transcript the vote reads: "Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, aye --
4; Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
no -- 7."

12. The word "the" is here inserted in the transcript.

13. In the transcript the vote reads: "Delaware, Virginia, aye -- 2;
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 9."

14. In the transcript the vote reads: "Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North
Carolina, aye -- 9; South Carolina, Georgia, no -- 2."

15. The word "preponderancy" is changed to "preponderance" in the
transcript.

16. The word "alone" is substituted in the transcript for "only."


